Khiem's Calendar.clear() method (#2997)
Codecademy/docs: content/java/concepts/calendar/terms/clear.md

---
Title: '.clear()'

> Description: 'A method designed to reset or clear specific fields of the calendar instance.'

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Description: 'A method designed to reset or clear specific fields of a Calendar instance.'
```

Subjects: 

>     - 'Computer Science'

Reviewer: the spacing of the metadata section is incorrect. Please review one of our templates for reference-

https://github.com/Codecademy/docs/blob/main/documentation/term-entry-template.md?plain=1

Author: sorry but i've not seen where my spacing is wrong in this.

Tags:
    - 'Methods'
    - 'Calendar'
CatalogContent:
    - 'learn-java'
    - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The method **`clear()`** in the [`Calendar`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/calendar) class is used to reset or clear specific fields of the calendar instance to their default values. It allows you to reset individual fields, such as `YEAR`, `MONTH`, `DAY_OF_MONTH`, `HOUR`, etc., to their initial state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`clear()`** method of the [`Calendar`](https://www.codecademy.com/resources/docs/java/calendar) class is used to reset or clear specific fields of the given instance to their default values. It allows the reset of individual fields, such as `YEAR`, `MONTH`, `DAY_OF_MONTH`, `HOUR`, etc., to their initial state.
```

Reviewer: in docs we avoid the use of first and second person pronouns (I, you, we)

## Syntax

```pseudo
void clear()
void clear(int field)
```

> > **Note:** Without any parameters, the `clear` method clears all fields of the Calendar instance, thereby resetting it to its initial state. The `clear(int field)` method allows you to clear a specific field by providing the corresponding field constant from the Calendar class.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
> **Note:** Without any parameters, the `clear` method clears all fields of the `Calendar` instance, thereby resetting it to its initial state. The `clear(int field)` method allows a specific field to be cleared by providing the corresponding field constant from the `Calendar` class.
```

## Example

> In this example, the `CalendarClearExample` class demonstrates the use of `clear()` and `clear(int field)` methods. The first part clears all fields of the Calendar instance, while the second part clears the YEAR field, effectively setting it to its default value (which is 1970).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this example, the `CalendarClearExample` class demonstrates the use of `clear()` and `clear(int field)` methods. The first part clears all fields of the `Calendar` instance, while the second part clears the `YEAR` field, effectively setting it to its default value (which is 1970).
```

```java
import java.util.Calendar;

public class CalendarClearExample {

>     public static void main(String[] args) {

Reviewer: Docs does not use tabs, please update the examples so that indentations are 2 spaces

        // Create a Calendar instance representing the current date and time
        Calendar calendar = Calendar.getInstance();

        System.out.println("Before clearing: " + calendar.getTime());

        // Clear all fields using clear()
        calendar.clear();

        System.out.println("After clearing all fields: " + calendar.getTime());

        // Set the calendar to a specific date and time
        calendar.set(Calendar.YEAR, 2023);
        calendar.set(Calendar.MONTH, Calendar.JULY);
        calendar.set(Calendar.DAY_OF_MONTH, 19);
        calendar.set(Calendar.HOUR_OF_DAY, 15);
        calendar.set(Calendar.MINUTE, 30);

        System.out.println("Before clearing specific field: " + calendar.getTime());

        // Clear the YEAR field using clear(int field)
        calendar.clear(Calendar.YEAR);

        System.out.println("After clearing YEAR field: " + calendar.getTime());
    }
}
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This code will return an output similar to the following:

```
